I"D<p>Changing direction is never easy. It may seem simple, but any large decision ends up consisting of a seemingly endless number of small decisions. With each one of those small decisions being weighed down by trying to determine what’s “best”. Because if you’re taking the risk of making a big decision, you damn well want to make sure you’re doing it in the “best” way possible.</p>

<p>I made the large decision a while ago to change careers and enter the tech world. That’s obviously a very large category that I knew I wanted to be a part of, but the nuance was hard to grasp at the time. Thankfully, I was aware that there was a vague direction I wanted to go, but not what the end destination truly looked like or how I would get there. Enroute to any destination, there are an infinite number of paths that you can take. From the well-trodden path that becomes the default, to the one covered in thorny bushes with cliffs and mountains blocking your path.</p>

<p>Fortunately I had the luxury of being able to take some time and explore a number of different options. Initially I walked down the “Data Science” path, and took some side trips toward Machine Learning and Deep Learning. Each one was very interesting, but for me I kept feeling like I was missing the base of the tech world. I was initially dismissive of web development as I thought it was overdone and a commodity field at this point. Luckily I took the time to backtrack from the Data path and explored Web Development further. It became clear fairly quickly that this path was taking me where I needed to go. It was the one that would ultimately give me the foundation I was missing from the Data path. It also become apparent that it is far from being “over done”, and that it is continuing the develop in every possible manner.</p>

<p>Having a firmer grasp on your destination is one thing, but how to actually get there is an equally if not more daunting decision. Taking the default option might feel the easiest. Going to University and getting a degree to prove that you know things is the respectable path. Nobody would think less of your for making that decision. Just like nobody got fired for picking IBM back in the day. For me, that path looked like a Master’s in Software Engineering. I would get a good education, a nice piece of paper at the end to prove how smart I was, and hopefully the skills to back it up.</p>

<p>I didn’t take that path. I chose the own that likely didn’t carry as much respect within our society and entered a 3-month Web Development Bootcamp through Lighthouse Labs. Honestly, I had difficulty with that decision. I had already gone through University and got an Engineering degree. I was a Professional. Why would I go “backwards” to a trade school?</p>

<p>The reasoning behind this decision has stuck with me, and I am coming to appreciate it more and more. Taking the University path, I feel as though my main goal would have been to get sufficiently high grades to ensure that I got the end degree. The degree at the end of the tunnel would have been the goal, the driving force behind everything. That would have shifted the focus away from what I feel the goal should be: learning. By going down the path of the Bootcamp, my goal was not to have a piece of paper at the end that I could use to prove my knowledge. Instead, I would need to rely on the knowledge that I gained. Ultimately, that goal shifted my focus to where it needed to be.</p>

<p>Now I’m in the workforce, using the knowledge that I gained in the Bootcamp and adding to it every day. The on-the-job training will become much more useful in the long-term. However, that same decision keeps coming up.</p>

<p>Even in the working world, there is a focus on getting “pieces of paper” to prove you know something. Right now, that involves getting certified for the various cloud computing providers. The AWS certification is supposedly the thing everyone should get. I took a little walk down that path. I went through an online course to study for one of the standard certifications, but at the end didn’t really feel like I had learned anything. Sure, I could continue studying and “learn” enough to pass the certification exam. But would that really help me in the long run?</p>

<p>Instead, I shifted my focus again. I decided to learn cloud computing by actually using it. I built a website that is hosted in an AWS S3 bucket, uses AWS Code Commit as a repository, and AWS Code Build and Pipeline to watch for any commits, build an updated Site folder, and sync it back to the S3 bucket. That process took a little while to learn, but I understand the process and workings of that part of AWS much better than I would have after taking more certification practice exams. This path has also let me explore Azure, so that I understand the Microsoft approach compared to Amazon’s. This will be much more useful in the long term.</p>

<p>It’s tempting to look at what the accepted path says you should do, and blindly follow it. There is a chance that it’s going to lead where you want to go, and you should direct all of your focus towards it. For me, I’ve learned lately to make sure that my long-term goals are aligned with the direction the the path is taking me. It may take me a bit longer to learn a wide range of topics, but I feel the path I’m choosing will pay off in the long-term.</p>
:ET